Add CONTRIBUTING.md (#246)
che-incubator/chectl: CONTRIBUTING.md

# Contributing

The development flow includes:

- [create workspace, clone sources](#create-workspace-clone-sources)
- [build](#build)
- [run tests](#run-tests)
- [package binaries](#package-binaries)
- [code](#code)
- [push changes, provide pull request](#push-changes-provide-pull-request)

## Create workspace, clone sources

To create a workpace you can use [devfile](devfile.yaml).

> For that you have to [install the latest version](https://www.eclipse.org/che/docs/che-7/che-quick-starts.html#installing-the-chectl-management-tool) of this chectl and create a workspace:

Reviewer: it looks odd to install chectl when we clone chectl ?

Author: Yes and no. It's ok if we are explaining the user steps to create a workspace.
From other side it's extra information as user is already pretty experienced if he is going to contribute to chectl.

Author: Extra sentence has been removed.

```
$ chectl workspace:start -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/che-incubator/chectl/master/devfile.yaml
```

> See more about [devfile](https://redhat-developer.github.io/devfile)

After starting the workspace Theia will clone sources of `chectl` to `/projects/chectl` directory. Sources will be accessible in `theia-dev` and `dev` containers.

#### 'theia-dev' container

This container is used only for running Theia editor and does not take part in the following flow.

#### 'dev' container

> `chectl` is written on TypeScript. For that this container has preinstalled software to be able to build, test and launch `chectl`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`chectl` is written in TypeScript. For that this container has preinstalled software to be able to build, test and launch `chectl`.
```

Author: Thanks

You workspace is initialized with a list of commands described in the [devfile](devfile.yaml) in `commands` section. Those command allow you to:
- build
- test
- run
- install packager
- package binaries
- format sources

> You can run commands in one of tree ways.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can run commands in one of three ways.
```

Author: Thanks

1. It an easiest way is to use `My Workspace` panel at the left. You can launch commands by simple click.

2. `Terminal => Run Task...` menu. You can fin and pick a command in the appeared command palette.

3. Manually by opening a terminal in the `dev` container and running commands in `/projects/chectl` directory.

## Build

```bash
yarn
```

Open `My Workspace` panel at the left and launch `Build` command. It will run `yarn` command in `/projects/chectl` directory inside `dev` container. The command will install all necessary dependencies and compile the project. Upon successfull assembly, a new `bin` directory will appear in project directory and will have two files: `run` and `run.cmd`.

## Run tests

```bash
yarn test
```

Tests for `chectl` are written using `jest` framework.
To run tests, go to `My Workspace` panel, find and launch `Test` command. The command will run `yarn test` inside `dev` container.
Testing summary will be printed to the output.

## Run

```bash
./bin/run --help
```

To test ensure `chectl` is built successfully, launch `Run` command. It wil run `chectl` with `--help` directive.

## Package binaries

> ### Install packager

Reviewer: needs to be reworked. It's only using now `oclif-dev pack`

Author: Reworked

# Contributing

The development flow includes:

- [create workspace, clone sources](#create-workspace-clone-sources)
- [build](#build)
- [run tests](#run-tests)
- [generate devfile](#generate-devfile)
- [create workspace](#create-workspace)
- [package binaries](#package-binaries)
- [push changes, provide pull request](#push-changes-provide-pull-request)

## Create workspace, clone sources

To create a workpace you can use [devfile](devfile.yaml):

```
$ chectl workspace:start -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/che-incubator/chectl/master/devfile.yaml
```

> See more about [devfile](https://redhat-developer.github.io/devfile)

After starting the workspace Theia will clone sources of `chectl` to `/projects/chectl` directory. Sources will be accessible in `theia-dev` and `dev` containers.

#### 'theia-dev' container

> This container is used only for running Theia editor and does not take part in the following flow.

Reviewer: I'm not sure to understand why we have a container that is not used ?
AFAIK we don't have theia-dev there

Author: theia-de, not theia-dev. It's my wrong.

    --dockerimage="eclipse/che-theia-dev:next" \
    --git-repo="https://github.com/che-incubator/chectl.git" \
    --command="yarn" > /projects/sample.devfile
```

We added a command which generates a simple devfile `/projects/sample.devfile`. Workspace created from this devfile will have `chectl` project with running TypeScript language server. There will be a dev container for building, running and debugging `chectl`. It will be possible to easily build `chectl` by running `yarn` command from `My Workspace`.

## Create Workspace

> We still found a solution how to create a workspace by a command from container.

```bash
# upload devfile content to clbin, save link into a file
cat /projects/sample.devfile | curl -F 'clbin=<-' https://clbin.com > /projects/clbin

# run chectl, pass the given URI
uri=$(cat /projects/clbin); ./run workspace:start -f=$uri
```

To create a workspsace run `Create Workspace` command from `My Workspace`. The command will upload content of the generated `/projects/sample.devfile` devfile to https://clbin.com. And then will use given public URI to the devfile when running `chectl`.

> See more about [clbin](https://clbin.com/)

## Package binaries

> For packaging binaries we use https://github.com/oclif/dev-cli. It generates packaged for Linux, Windows and MacOS operation systems and puts the result in `dist/channels/stable` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For packaging binaries, [oclif](https://github.com/oclif/dev-cli) is used. It generates packages for Linux, Windows and MacOS operation systems and puts the result in `dist/channels/stable` directory.
```

Author: Thanks
